open the book by Agatha Christopher at
page 160 and pretend to read
in truth you find it hard to look at a
page with so few words on it and not
read them you find yourself reading
after all
the first thing you notice mister for a
place dedicated to silence there's not
really that much a silence at all
after a while you start to think that it
might be better considered as a place
dedicated to the collection of sounds
the sounds of things being dragged from
packs efficiently or clumsily the sounds
of footsteps of pages turning and being
pressed to hold that place sound of
fingers on keyboards then sauce or pens
being dropped
plucks being fitted into sockets okay
stop reading now we're if you've got and
fix your eyes on the last words that you
read focus on the very last word the
last word you were reading look at it
turn it over in your mind in your eye in
your mind's eye look at each letter of
the world in turn try to fix the shape
of it on the shape of those letters in
your mind remember it with a notebook in
front of you attend turn to page 25
try to imagine that word the last word
you read from the book blindness by jaws
is our motto there in the center of that
page and once you've imagined it they
stare at each of the letters in turn and
then at the whole word again now make
the word start to fade let it fade
slowly let it disappear
bit by bit let it get softer and softer
weaker and weaker and weaker until
that's barely a trace of it and then
until there's no trace of it at all